Description and example of using the ESC command 'custom' (#54)
godot-escoria/escoria-docs: advanced/faq.rst

they will cause problems with mouse interactions. You will need to
modify the properties of the ``TextureRect`` / ``ColorRect`` and set its
"Mouse Filter" setting to "Ignore".

I want to call my own GDScript function from ESC. How can I do this?

> --------------------------------------------------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How can I call my own GDScript function from Escoria?
-----------------------------------------------------
```

ESC makes this possible by providing the `custom` command. The function

> must be associated with the child node of an `ESCItem` in your scene.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Escoria script makes this possible by providing the `custom` command. The function
must be associated with the child node of an `ESCItem` in your scene.
```

(See :doc:`https://docs.escoria-framework.org/en/devel/scripting/z_esc_reference.html#custom-object-node-func-name-params-api-doc`)

To make use of this handy command, follow these steps:

* Create a new node of the appropriate type as a child of an `ESCItem` in your
  scene. For example, if you have a door in your scene and you want to make a
  function that does something special when the door opens, you could create a
  child node of type `Node2D` underneath the `ESCItem` that represents that

>   door.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create a new node of an appropriate type as a child of an `ESCItem` in your
  scene. For example, if you have a door in your scene and you want to make a
  function that does something special when the door opens, you could create a
  child node of type `Node2D` underneath the `ESCItem` that represents the
  door.
```

Author: Frankly, in this context, they're interchangeable, but for the sake of consistency (given that you've done more work on the docs now than I have), I'll use your suggestion.

.. hint::

   Remember the global ID of this `ESCItem`. You'll need it when you use the

>    `custom` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. hint::

   Remember the global ID and name of this `ESCItem`. 
   You'll need them when you use the `custom` command.
```

* Create your GDScript function in a .gd file and attach it to the child node
  as described above. This function can be called anything you want, but it
  must take exactly one argument. Escoria will pass in to the function any and
  all arguments pass in via the `custom` command as an array. If your function

>   doesn't require any arguments, Escoria will pass in an empty array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create your GDScript function in a .gd file and attach it to the child node
  as described above. This function can be called anything you want, but it
  **must** take exactly one argument. Escoria will pass in to the function any and
  all arguments specified in the `custom` command as an array. If your function
  doesn't require any arguments, Escoria will pass in an empty array.
```

.. hint::

   Remember the name of the node that makes use of your script. You'll need it
   when you use the `custom` command.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.. hint::

>   It is up to you to unpack the arguments passed in via the `custom` command as
>   well as to perform any validation on these arguments you deem necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It is up to you to unpack the arguments passed in via the `custom` command as
  well as performing any validation on these arguments you deem necessary.
```

Author: Disagree here. While your suggestion does sound good, consistency between the two instructions and the preceding subject has to be maintained. 

I.e. if the first item wasn't there (about unpacking), we'd say, "It is up to you to perform any validation...", not "It is up to you performing validation...".

However, if you feel strongly enough... :)

> * In the appropriate event in an ESC script file, call the function you made
>   above by using the `custom` command, e.g.
> 
> .. code-block::
> 
>    :setup
>    # Call the function you defined with some arguments
>    custom esc_item_global_id child_node_name function_name arg1 arg2 arg3
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the appropriate event in an Escoria script file, call the function you made
  above by using the `custom` command. For example :
     * Your game has a node with a global_id of "treasure_maps"
     * The "treasure_maps" node a child node called "france_treasure_map".
     * "france_treasure_map" has a Godot script (in GDscript format) attached. 
        In this script is a function "draw_treasure" to show a map on the screen.
       In your Escoria script, you would call the script using :

.. code-block::

   :setup
   # Call the function you defined with some arguments
   # Format : custom esc_item_global_id child_node_name function_name arg1 arg2 ... 
   # Note no parameters are passed to the "draw_treasure" function
   custom treasure_maps france_treasure_map draw_treasure 
   
     * The GDScript it calls might look like this :

.. code-block::

   extends Node2D

   # An empty array is passed as a parameter to the function so we ignore it
   func draw_treasure(_ignored_parameter):
	get_node("../france_map_sprite").visible = true

* If instead you wanted to pass this script some parameters:
   * If your script took an x and y coordinate to display an "X marks the spot"
      graphic on the treasure map, your Escoria script code might look like :

.. code-block::

   :setup
   custom treasure_maps france_treasure_map draw_treasure xcoordinate ycoordinate

   * The matching GDScript code now needs to extract those coordinates from the 
      parameter array that is passed to the function.

.. code-block::

   extends Node2D

   # Extract coordinates from the array of parameters
   func draw_treasure(list_of_parameters):
	var xcoord = list_of_parameters[0]
	var ycoord = list_of_parameters[1]
	get_node("../france_map_sprite").visible = true
	[...]

```

.. hint::

   You can pass in as many arguments you want to your function. If no arguments
   are required, you don't need to specify anything else after the function's
   name.

> .. hint::
> 
>    Remember that any arguments you pass to your function must be literals.
>    Variables like ESC flags, globals and the like cannot be used currently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. hint::

   Any arguments you pass to your function must be literals.
   Escoria variables (ESC flags, globals, etc) cannot be passed currently.
```

> Now, when the above `:setup` event is run, it will call `function_name` with
> the specified arguments
> 
> That's all there is to it!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

     * Your game has a node with a global_id of "treasure_maps"
     * The "treasure_maps" node a child node called "france_treasure_map".
     * "france_treasure_map" has a Godot script (in GDscript format) attached. 
        In this script is a function "draw_treasure" to show a map on the screen.
       In your Escoria script, you would call the script using :

.. code-block::

   :setup
   # Call the function you defined with some arguments
   # Format : custom esc_item_global_id child_node_name function_name arg1 arg2 ... 
   # Note no parameters are passed to the "draw_treasure" function
   custom treasure_maps france_treasure_map draw_treasure 
   
     * The GDScript it calls might look like this :

.. code-block::

   extends Node2D

   # An empty array is passed as a parameter to the function so we ignore it
   func draw_treasure(_ignored_parameter):
	get_node("../france_map_sprite").visible = true

* If instead you wanted to pass this script some parameters:
   * If your script took an x and y coordinate to display an "X marks the spot"
      graphic on the treasure map, your Escoria script code might look like :

.. code-block::

   :setup

>    custom treasure_maps france_treasure_map draw_treasure xcoordinate ycoordinate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   custom treasure_maps france_treasure_map draw_treasure {xcoordinate} {ycoordinate}
```

>    * The matching GDScript code now needs to extract those coordinates from the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.. hint::

   Escoria variables (ESC flags, globals, etc) can be passed as 
   parameters by wrapping them in braces.
   e.g. {xcoorinate}

   * The matching GDScript code now needs to extract those coordinates from the 
```
